FocusMe is a web application inspired by our experiences as students, particularly those of us with ADHD or other neurodivergent traits who often struggle with focus and time management. Our goal was to create an environment that enables users to unlock their flow state using psychologically proven study tactics. The application provides an AI-assisted environment conducive for planning and time management. Main features include a task view for task input and overview, a calendar view that breaks down tasks into manageable subtasks for daily completion, and a focus view that ensures a distraction-free workspace.

The application was built using a React frontend, and Intel and Python backend with a Flask framework. The domain is hosted on GoDaddy, while the UI was designed using tailwindCSS, HTML, and Figma for the logo. Despite the challenges we faced, such as issues with UI and the steep learning curve with React, we managed to create a functional web application that is 90% demoable, complete with backend.

These challenges taught us the importance of dedication and persistence, especially when competing in a hackathon. There were many instances when we were discouraged by setbacks and considered focusing on the hackathon events due to time constraints, but our end goal and desire to effect change kept us going.

For future developments, we aim to enhance the features of FocusMe by connecting the backend to allow task subdivision, and implementing an AI generation feature that creates suggested subtasks for the user as default. The UI will also be improved, and an authentication and database feature will be implemented. We are hopeful that this product will bring relief to many users and we commit to continue developing it for the greater good, ensuring better accessibility throughout tech and industry.
